Live-cell imaging of IEC monolayer infections. 
Live-cell imaging was performed on a custom-built upright microscope, based on the Thorlabs Cerna upright microscopy system (Thorlabs Inc., Newton, NJ, USA), with a heated 60/1.0 NA Nikon CFI APO NIR objective (2.8mm WD) and a Nikon d-CUO DIC oil condenser (1.4 NA) controlled by Micro-Manager 2.0 75. Images were acquired with an ORCA-Fusion camera (C14440-20UP; Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu City, Japan), with a final pixel size of 109nm. Transmitted light was supplied by a 530nm Thorlabs LED (M530L3) to minimize phototoxicity and chromatic aberrations. The imaging chamber was maintained at 37°C with moisturized 5% CO2 air passing over, and using an objective heater. IEC monolayers grown within AICs were placed in 35mm glass-bottom dishes (Cellvis) in 3ml DMEM/F12 without antibiotics in the microscope’s light path and allowed to equilibrate for 30min. The S.Tm inoculum was added to the apical compartment directly underneath the objective, and imaging started immediately, with 20ms exposure times and 15sec frame rates for differential interference contrast (DIC) imaging. The resulting time-lapse movies were analyzed manually using Trackmate for ImageJ 76 to track the time of attachment, division, invasion and/or detachment for individual bacteria. The track information was exported and used to generate dendrogram plots using custom R scripts based on the ‘data.tree’, ‘dendextend’, and ‘stats’ packages. In the case of “cENR+DAPT+ALI” monolayers, after addition of the S.Tm inoculum, imaging was started immediately by generating a relative Z-stack with 3 slices at the apical epithelial surface (4µm step size), 20ms exposure times (DIC) or 250ms exposure times (mCherry) and 15sec frame rates for 5 minutes. For analysis, a maximum intensity projection was generated, and the number of bacteria present at the surface at 2min p.i. were manually enumerated in blinded mCherry channel images.
